docs: HAProxy API Gateway (#2045)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/developer-guide/api-gateways/haproxy-api-gateway.adoc

description: HAProxy JWT integration
navcategory: developer
---

== Overview

https://www.haproxy.com[HAProxy] is a popular load balancer that can also be used as an https://www.haproxy.com/blog/using-haproxy-as-an-api-gateway-part-1/[API Gateway].

You can configure HAProxy to handle authorization to services through JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) issued on behalf of a user authenticated by an identity provider.

In this document, you'll learn how to set up HAProxy with FusionAuth as the identity provider to protect an HTTP service using JWTs.

== Prerequisites

* A FusionAuth instance running on a publicly accessible URL. You can spin up a link:/pricing[basic FusionAuth Cloud instance] or link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/[install it on any server].
* An HAProxy instance routed to an HTTP service. You can follow https://www.haproxy.com/blog/how-to-run-haproxy-with-docker/[this guide] to get a simple example running on Docker.

[NOTE.note]
====
When creating your HAProxy container, be sure to use `haproxytech/haproxy-alpine:latest`, not `haproxytech/haproxy-alpine:2.4` as the guide instructs. Version 2.4 does not support the full set of JWT features needed in this tutorial.

> If you have trouble getting the `haproxy` container from the guide to start, make sure your `haproxy.cfg` file ends with a newline. Even whitespace on the last line will prevent the container from running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have trouble getting the `haproxy` container from the guide to start, make sure your `haproxy.cfg` file ends with a newline. Even a whitespace on the last line will prevent the container from running.
```

Another suggestion

image::api-gateways/HAProxy-Api-Gateway/haproxy-tenant-issuer.png[Tenant issuer,width=1200px]

Next, you need to configure a FusionAuth application to issue tokens to access the HAProxy services.

Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Applications# and create a new application. Fill out the [field]#Name# field, then click the [breadcrumb]#JWT# tab and toggle the [field]#Enabled# switch. Select [uielement]#Auto generate a new key on save...# for the [field]#Access Token signing key# and [field]#Id token signing key# fields. This will generate an RS256 asymmetric key pair specifically for this application.

image::api-gateways/HAProxy-Api-Gateway/haproxy-application-jwt-settings.png[Application JWT settings,width=1200px]

Click the [uielement]#Save# button.

After saving the new application, find it in the list of applications and click the [uielement]#View# button next to it (look for the green magnifying glass). Here you will find the application [field]#Id#. Record this value, as you will need it further on. It will be referred to later as `<YOUR_APPLICATION_ID>`.

image::api-gateways/HAProxy-Api-Gateway/haproxy-application-id.png[Application id,width=1200px,role=bottom-cropped]

> Now, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Key Master#. You will see the access key that you've just created in this list. By default, it has the name `Access token signing key generated for application <NAME_OF_APPLICATION>`. View the key and copy the entire contents of the [field]#PEM encoded# field under the [breadcrumb]#Public Key# section into a file in the same directory as you placed the `haproxy.cfg` file whilst setting up HAProxy in the quickstart guide. Name the file `pubkey.pem`. Remember this filename, as you will supply it to the HAProxy configuration file later.

Reviewer: [nitpick (non-blocking):](https://conventionalcomments.org/) I think we could split _"View the key and ... in the quickstart guide"_ in two to make them simpler.

Author: done

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1673366204805,
    "user": {
        "sampleuserdata" : "..."
    }
}
----

Copy the [field]#token# value. You can now gain access to your HAProxy service by passing this value as a bearer token.

[source,shell,title="Gain access with JWT"]
----
curl -I http://localhost:80 \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>'
----

Here, `TOKEN` is the value of the JWT that you copied from the `/api/login` call.

This command should return `HTTP/1.1 200 OK`, indicating successful authorization to the HAProxy service.

== Troubleshooting

> * The JWT issued by the FusionAuth Login API has an expiry. If you wait too long before using it to call the HAProxy service, the token will expire and the call will fail. You can resolve this by rerunning the curl command to obtain another JWT token and use the new token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The JWT issued by the FusionAuth Login API has an expiration date. If you wait too long before using it to call the HAProxy service, the token will expire and the call will fail. You can resolve this by rerunning the curl command to obtain another JWT token and use the new token.
```

Just a suggestion
